
In the current project, things that are going to be implemented are checking the overflow of sewers, concentration of poisonous gases (methane) and
blockages in the underground pipes. The data regarding these parameters is
to be sensed and processed. So for this we are using following:
4.1.1 ESP32
In our project will use ESP module for transfer of data and communication
between the cloud and the model system.The ESP8266 Wi-Fi module is
self-compartment SOC with in focused TCP/IP convention stack that can
give any microcontroller admittance to your Wi-Fi network. Each ESP8266
module comes pre-programmed with an AT commands set firmware. The
ESP8266 module is an extremely cost effective bold with a hug and ever
growing, community. So we will be using ESP 32 which is a 40 pin micro
controller that works at low voltage. It has a dual core processor. This
module has dual-mode bluetooth and wifi embedded on it. SP32 is made
and created by Espressif Systems, a Shanghai-based Chinese organization,
and is produced by TSMC utilizing their 40 nm process.It is a replacement
to the ESP8266 microcontroller. ESP32 can aslo be used as a microcontroller
and develop a design. It is very efficient and easy to use. It can be used both
for commercial purpose and also for industrial purpose.

Arduino Uno is a microcontroller used to running all the sensors. It is the
board that contains sets of digital and analog input output pins that helps
in connecting many other sensors and modules.
Figure 4.2: Arduino UNO

An ultrasonic sound sensor is a device that measures distance of the target.
This sensor converts the electric signals into ultrasonic sound waves and the
transmitter present in the sensor transmits them. When they hit the target,
waves reflect back and reach the receiver. Based on the time of reception
of ultrasonic signals, distance of the target from the sensor is found out.An
ultrasonic sound sensor is a device that measures distance of the target.
HCSR04 ultrasonic sensor consists of a transmitter, a receiver and a control
unit. In this module HCSR04, trigger pulse for 10sis provided to the TRIG
pin, so that the transmitter generates ultrasonic sound waves of frequency
40 kHz.
Pin Description:
VCC: The supply of 5V is given to this pin.
TRIGGER: This is an input pin where 10s pulse is given to this pin.
ECHO: This pin is output pin which remains high until the echo sound
wave is received.
GROUND: This is connected to 0V.


MQ-135 gas sensor is used to detect the concentration levels of methane and
natural gas in ppm. This sensor has a layer of SnO2. SnO2 is sensitive to
methane gas. It increases its conductivity when it comes in contact with
these harmful gases. So, the output voltage also increases. Thus this value
is used to calibrate the methane level.
Pin Description:
VCC: A supply of 5V is given through this pin
AOUT: This is an ouput pin. This gives output analog voltage level
depending on the concentration of methane
DOUT: This is a digital output pin.
GND: It is connected to ground
